Breast Cancer Dataset
Attribute Information:
This dataset provides digitized information (12 attributes) on breast images for 570 patients.  The aim of the analysis of these images is to determine the “Diagnosis” of the patients based on ten attributes e.g. radius, texture, perimeter, area, etc. excluding ID number which is not used for the analysis.
1) ID number of the patient
2) Diagnosis (M = malignant, B = benign) 

Ten attributes that could help find out the Diagnosis of the patient. These ten real-valued features/attributes are computed for each cell nucleus: 

3) radius (mean of distances from center to points on the perimeter) 
4) texture (standard deviation of gray-scale values) 
5) perimeter 
6) area 
7) smoothness (local variation in radius lengths) 
8) compactness (perimeter^2 / area - 1.0) 
9) concavity (severity of concave portions of the contour) 
10) concave points (number of concave portions of the contour) 
11) symmetry 
12) fractal dimension ("coastline approximation" - 1)
Data Set Information:
Features are computed from a digitized image of a fine needle aspirate (FNA) of a breast mass. They describe characteristics of the cell nuclei present in the image. A few of the images can be found at [Web Link] 

Separating plane described above was obtained using Multisurface Method-Tree (MSM-T) [K. P. Bennett, "Decision Tree Construction Via Linear Programming." Proceedings of the 4th Midwest Artificial Intelligence and Cognitive Science Society, pp. 97-101, 1992], a classification method which uses linear programming to construct a decision tree. Relevant features were selected using an exhaustive search in the space of 1-4 features and 1-3 separating planes. 

The actual linear program used to obtain the separating plane in the 3-dimensional space is that described in: [K. P. Bennett and O. L. Mangasarian: "Robust Linear Programming Discrimination of Two Linearly Inseparable Sets", Optimization Methods and Software 1, 1992, 23-34].