Dataset Name:Yeast

The aim of the analysis is to classify and predict Protein Localization  (LocSiteOfProtein dependent variable)

Yeast dataset comprise:

Predicted Attribute: Localization site of protein (LocSiteOfProtein) ( non-numeric ).
   9 ( 8 predictive, 1 Sequence Name )
	     
  
    Note: Sequence Name is not used in the analysis

1.  Sequence Name: Accession number for the SWISS-PROT database
  
2.  mcg: McGeoch's method for signal sequence recognition.
  
3.  gvh: von Heijne's method for signal sequence recognition.
  
4.  alm: Score of the ALOM membrane spanning region prediction program.
 
5.  mit: Score of discriminant analysis of the amino acid content of
 the N-terminal region         (20 residues long) of mitochondrial and non-mitochondrial proteins.
  
6.  erl: Presence of "HDEL" substring (thought to act as a signal for
 retention in the           endoplasmic reticulum lumen). Binary attribute.
  
7.  pox: Peroxisomal targeting signal in the C-terminus.
  
8.  vac: Score of discriminant analysis of the amino acid content of
 vacuolar and      extracellular proteins.
  
9.  nuc: Score of discriminant analysis of nuclear localization signals
 of nuclear and        non-nuclear proteins.


8. Missing Attribute Values: None.


9. Class Distribution. 

The class is the localization site of Protein. 

Sites


2. Creator and Maintainer:
 Kenta Nakai
             Institue of Molecular and Cellular Biology
	     Osaka, University
	     1-3 Yamada-oka, Suita 565 Japan
	     nakai@imcb.osaka-u.ac.jp
    http://www.imcb.osaka-u.ac.jp/nakai/psort.html
   Donor: Paul Horton (paulh@cs.berkeley.edu)
   Date:  September, 1996
   See also: ecoli database

3. Past Usage.
Reference: "A Probablistic Classification System for Predicting the Cellular Localization Sites of Proteins", Paul Horton & Kenta Nakai,
           Intelligent Systems in Molecular Biology, 109-115.
 St. Louis, USA 1996.
Results: 55% for Yeast data with an ad hoc structured
 probability model. Also similar accuracy for Binary Decision Tree and
 Bayesian Classifier methods applied by the same authors in
 unpublished results.


Please see Nakai &
 Kanehisa referenced above for more details.
  CYT (cytosolic or cytoskeletal)                    463
  NUC (nuclear)                                      429
  MIT (mitochondrial)                                244
  ME3 (membrane protein, no N-terminal signal)       163
  ME2 (membrane protein, uncleaved signal)           
51
  ME1 (membrane protein, cleaved signal)              
44
  EXC (extracellular)                                 37
  VAC (vacuolar)                                      
30
  POX (peroxisomal)                                   
20
  ERL (endoplasmic reticulum lumen)                    5